Getting Started with Synthetic Monitoring > API Tests (#10885)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/getting_started/synthetics/api_test.md

    - link: '/synthetics/api_tests'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about API tests'
    - link: '/getting_started/synthetics/private_location'
      tag: 'Documentation'

>       text: 'Learn about Private locations'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      text: 'Learn about private locations'
```

## Create an API test

[API tests][1] **monitor your API endpoints** and **alert you** when they become too slow or fail. These tests verify that your applications are responding to requests and meeting any conditions you define, such as **response time**, **HTTP status code**, and **header or body contents**.

> The example below demonstrates the creation of an API test to ensure your website is up and providing responses in a given period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below demonstrates the creation of an API test to ensure that your website is up and is providing responses in a given period of time.
```

### Configure the request

1. In the Datadog application, hover over **[UX Monitoring][2]** in the left hand menu and select **Synthetic Test**.
2. In the top right corner, click the **New Test** button.
3. Select **API test**.
4. Define your API request:

    - Add the URL of the endpoint you want to monitor. If you don’t know what to start with, you can use `https://www.shopist.io/`, a test web application.
    - You can select **Advanced Options** to use custom request headers, authentication credentials, body content, or cookies.
    - You can set environment tags such as `env:prod` and `app:shopist` and additional tags on your test. Tags allow you to stay organized and quickly find test you're interested in on the homepage.
    - Click **Test URL**.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-config.png" alt="API test configuration"  style="width:60%;">}}

#### Define assertions

Datadog automatically populates basic assertions about your endpoint's response. Assertions define the alert condition and are customizable. 

> In this example, three default assertions populate after testing the URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, three default assertions populate after the URL is tested:
```

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example.png" alt="Browser test failure"  style="width:90%;">}}

> To add a custom assertion, you can click anywhere in the response preview or click **New Assertion**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a custom assertion, click anywhere in the response preview or click **New Assertion**.
```

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration.gif" alt="Browser test failure"  style="width:90%;">}}

#### Select locations 

> Select some **Managed Locations** or **Private Locations** to run your test from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select one or more **Managed Locations** or **Private Locations** to run your test from.
```

Reviewer: This would be a good place to have a sentence about what managed and private locations are, and where to find more info.

Author: @kayayarai, how's this:

Your managed locations often are public-facing websites and endpoints. To test internal applications or simulate user behavior in discrete geographic regions, select **Private Locations** instead.

For more information about private locations, see the [Private Locations](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/synthetics/private_location) documentation.

Reviewer: I like this rewrite, but can't approve the PR until it's actually in the source. One edit to the last sentence "For more information, see the [Private Locations] documentation." (it says "PL" too many times).

#### Specify test frequency

> Select the interval of time you want to run your test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the time interval between your test runs.
```

Reviewer: I think? Is it like, "select `1 min` to have the test run every one minute"?

Author: @kayayarai How about "select the time frequency of your test runs?"

Reviewer: "time frequency" is probably redundant. how about "Select the frequency of your test runs"?

#### Define alert conditions

You can specify the number of failures per location before the location is considered failed:

```text
Retry x time before location is marked as failed
```

After a location fails, retries immediately run.

> **Note**: By default, the wait time for a failed test to retry is 300ms. This interval can be configured via the [Synthetics API][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: By default, the wait time for a failed test to retry is 300ms. You can confiture with the [Synthetics API][3].
```

Author: @kayayarai do you mean "configure with?"

Reviewer: lol yes, setting configuration parameters, not french jam. And a better sentence would start: "You can configure the interval with"

> To receive alerts when your endpoint goes down for three minutes on two different locations, you can set up an alerting condition such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive alerts when your endpoint goes down for three minutes on two different locations, set up an alerting condition such as:
```

```text
An alert is triggered if your test fails for 3 minutes from any 2 of 13 locations
```

#### Notify your team

Add an alert name to the **Monitor Name** field and write a message for the alert. You can tag other teams, specify which service and team members receive the alert notifications, and use [integrations][4] such as Slack, PagerDuty, and webhooks.

You can set time for your alert notification to re-notify if the alert has not been resolved and define the priority of the alert, ranging from **P5 (Info)** to **P1 (Critical)**.

When you're ready to run your test, click **Save Test**. 

### Test results

The API test details page displays an overview of the test configuration, the global uptime associated with the tested endpoint by location, graphs about response time and network timings, and a list of test results and events.

> To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll down to **Test Results** and click on a failing test result. You can review failed assertions and response details such as status code, response time, and associated headers and body to diagnose the issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To troubleshoot a failed test, scroll down to **Test Results** and click on a failing test result. Review failed assertions and response details such as status code, response time, and associated headers and body to diagnose the issue.
```

    - Click **Test URL**.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-config.png" alt="API test configuration"  style="width:60%;">}}

#### Define assertions

Datadog automatically populates basic assertions about your endpoint's response. Assertions define the alert condition and are customizable. 

In this example, three default assertions populate after the URL is tested:

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/assertions-example.png" alt="Browser test failure"  style="width:90%;">}}

To add a custom assertion, click anywhere in the response preview or click **New Assertion**.

{{< img src="getting_started/synthetics/api-test-configuration.gif" alt="Browser test failure"  style="width:90%;">}}

#### Select locations 

Select one or more **Managed Locations** or **Private Locations** to run your test from.

Your managed locations often include public-facing websites and endpoints. To test internal applications or simulate user behavior in discrete geographic regions, select **Private Locations** instead.

> For more information, see the [Private Locations](https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/synthetics/private_location) documentation.

Reviewer: ... and then add `[6]: /getting_started/synthetics/private_location` on line 115

[3]: /api/v1/synthetics/#create-or-clone-a-test
[4]: /integrations/
[5]: /synthetics/apm/

> [6]: /getting-started/synthetics/private_location/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You don't need this line for `further_reading` links. All links listed in the top-matter (lines 1-21 in this file) will be inserted where the `partial` call is (line 104). This section (lines 106-110) is strictly for the in-line links in the page text.
